Probabilistic_Robotics_Chapter9_Occupancy_Grid_Mapping

Acquiring maps with mobile robots is a challenging problem for a number of reasons. The hypothesis space, which is the space of all possible maps is huge. Since maps are defined over continuous space, the space of all maps has infinitely many dimensions.  Due to the sheer size of this huge dimensional space makes is challenging to calculate full posteriors over maps, hence the Baysian filtering approach is in applicable to the problem of learning maps. Learning maps is a chicken-and-egg problem, which is often referred to as SLAM. The first problem is a localization problem. The second problem is a mapping problem. The factors which contribute to the difficulty of the mapping problem are: The maps’ size, the noise present in environment perception and actuation, the perceptual ambiguity due to different places looking very similar and finally cycles. These cycles make robots return via different paths.

The first assumption made is that the exact poses of the robot is known before hand, or the robot path during mapping is known, called mapping with known poses. Occupancy grid mapping is used in post -processing and is not fit for path planning and navigation.

Occupancy Gird Mapping Algorithm. One wants to calculate the posterior over maps given the data, p(m | z1:t,x1:t).  Since the path is already known, the controls u1:t play no role in occupancy grid maps. X1:t is the sequence of poses which define the path of the robot. The most common domain of occupancy gird maps are 2-D floor plan maps. Chosen when the robot navigates on a flat surface and the sensors are mounted so that they can capture only a slice of the world. An occupancy gird map partitions the space into finitely many grid cells m = {mi}. Where each cell, mi, has attached to it a binary value representing whether the cell is occupied [1] or free [0]. When calculating the posterior probability for a map, the number of calculations is represented by 2^n where n is the number of map gird cells. Refer to 9.2-9.4. Through estimating p(mi | z1:t,x1:t) leads us to the posterior over the maps to be the product of its marginals. 
